Geomap: Update Documentation (#53552)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/visualizations/geomap/controls.md

---
aliases:
  - /docs/grafana/latest/features/panels/geomap/controls/
  - /docs/grafana/latest/panels/visualizations/geomap/controls/
description: Map Controls
keywords:
  - grafana
  - Geomap
  - panel
  - documentation
title: Map controls
weight: 500
---

# Map Controls

> The map controls section allows toggling of which controls and information panels are overlayed over the map.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The map controls section contains various options for map information and tool overlays.
```

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/geomap-panel/geomap-map-controls-9-1-0.png" max-width="1200px" caption="Geomap panel map controls" >}}

## Zoom

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section describes each of the zoom controls.
```

### Show zoom control

Displays zoom controls in the upper left corner. This control can be useful when using systems that don't have a mouse.

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/geomap-panel/geomap-map-controls-zoom-9-1-0.png" max-width="1200px" caption="Geomap panel zoom" >}}

### Mouse wheel zoom

Enables the mouse wheel to be used for zooming in or out.

> ## Show Attribution

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Show attribution
```

Displays attribution for basemap layers.

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/geomap-panel/geomap-map-controls-attribution-9-1-0.png" max-width="1200px" caption="Geomap panel attribution" >}}

> ## Show Scale

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Show scale
```

Displays scale information in the bottom left corner.

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/geomap-panel/geomap-map-controls-scale-9-1-0.png" max-width="1200px" caption="Geomap panel scale" >}}

> **Note:** Currently only displays units in [m]/[km].

> ## Show Measure Tools

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Show measure tools
```

> Display measure tools in the upper right corner. Measurements will only be displayed when this control is open.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Displays measure tools in the upper right corner. Measurements appear only when this control is open.
```

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/geomap-panel/geomap-map-controls-measure-9-1-0.png" max-width="1200px" caption="Geomap panel measure" >}}

- **Click** to start measuring
- **Continue clicking** to continue measurement
- **Double-click** to end measurement

> > **Note:** <br /> - When changing measurement type or units, previous measurement will be removed from the map. <br /> - If the control is closed, then re-opened, most recent measurement will be displayed. <br /> - A measurement can be modified by clicking and dragging on it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** <br /> - When you change measurement type or units, the previous measurement is removed from the map. <br /> - If the control is closed and then re-opened, the most recent measurement is displayed. <br /> - A measurement can be modified by clicking and dragging on it.
```

### Length

Get the spherical length of a geometry. This length is the sum of the great circle distances between coordinates. For multi-part geometries, the length is the sum of the length of each part. Geometries are assumed to be in 'EPSG:3857'.

- **Metric (m/km)**
- **Feet (ft)**
- **Miles (mi)**
- **Nautical miles (nmi)**

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/geomap-panel/geomap-map-controls-measure-length-9-1-0.png" max-width="1200px" caption="Geomap panel measure length" >}}

### Area

> Get the spherical area of a geometry. This is the area assuming that polygon edges are segments of great circles on a sphere. Geometries are assumed to be in 'EPSG:3857'.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Get the spherical area of a geometry. Assuming that polygon edges are segments of great circles on a sphere, this is the area. Geometries are assumed to be in 'EPSG:3857'.
```

- **Square Meters (m²)**
- **Square Kilometers (km²)**
- **Square Feet (ft²)**
- **Square Miles (mi²)**
- **Acres (acre)**
- **Hectare (ha)**

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/geomap-panel/geomap-map-controls-measure-area-9-1-0.png" max-width="1200px" caption="Geomap panel measure area" >}}

> ## Show Debug

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Show debug
```

Displays debug information in the upper right corner. This can be useful for debugging or validating a data source.

- **Zoom** displays current zoom level of the map.
- **Center** displays the current **longitude**, **latitude** of the map center.

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/geomap-panel/geomap-map-controls-debug-9-1-0.png" max-width="1200px" caption="Geomap panel debug" >}}

## Tooltip

> - **None** displays tooltips only when clicking on data points.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **None** displays tooltips only when a data point is clicked.
```

> - **Details** displays tooltips when hovering over data points.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Details** displays tooltips when a mouse pointer hovers over a data point.
```
